README.md, before:

# Voter Data Analysis

## Project Description
Analyzing data from the 2020 election to identify the effects income and voter barriers have on a citizen's ability to vote.

## Methods Used
* Multiple Linear Regression
* Data Visualization

## Data Used
We utilized data from [Cooperative Election Study](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi%3A10.7910/DVN/E9N6PH) which has survey entries from 61,000 American adults. The survery was asking Americans questions that can be analyzed to understand why Americans did not vote in the 2020 election.

## Limitations
We were not allowed to use logistic regressions as it was outside the scope of the project. 

## Conclusions
We found that there is a relationship between income level and reasons for not voting. Those with higher self-reported incomes were less likely to face voting barriers than respondents with lower self-reported incomes. Lack of voter registration is a significant barrier to voting for respondents with lower incomes. This might be because lower-income individuals do not have the luxury of time to take off work to go register to vote.

We have identified a correlation between income levels and the underlying reasons for abstaining from voting. Individuals with higher self-reported incomes demonstrated a reduced likelihood of encountering obstacles to voting compared to respondents with lower self-reported incomes. Notably, the absence of voter registration emerged as a noteworthy impediment for those with lower incomes. This phenomenon could be attributed to the constrained time available to individuals with lower incomes, who may find it challenging to take time off from work to complete the voter registration process.

We observed a correlation between income levels and reasons for not voting, where individuals with higher self-reported incomes were notably less likely to face voting barriers compared to respondents with lower self-reported incomes. The absence of voter registration emerged as a significant and noteworthy impediment for those with lower incomes, potentially due to the limited time available to them to take off from work for the registration process.

Commit message:

added bar charts to readme

README.md, after:

# Voter Data Analysis

## Project Description
Analyzing data from the 2020 election to identify the effects income and voter barriers have on a citizen's ability to vote.

## Methods Used
* Multiple Linear Regression
* Data Visualization

## Data Used
We utilized data from [Cooperative Election Study](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi%3A10.7910/DVN/E9N6PH) which has survey entries from 61,000 American adults. The survery was asking Americans questions that can be analyzed to understand why Americans did not vote in the 2020 election.

## Limitations
We were not allowed to use logistic regressions as it was outside the scope of the project. 

## Conclusions
We observed a correlation between income levels and reasons for not voting, where individuals with higher self-reported incomes were less likely to face voting barriers when compared to respondents with lower self-reported incomes. The lack of voter registration emerged as a significant impediment for those with lower incomes, potentially because lower-income individuals do not have the luxury of time to take off work to go register to vote.

The bar charts from our EDA visualize just that:

![](https://github.com/hamza6khan/voter-data-analysis/blob/main/barrier_inc_level.jpg)

![](https://github.com/hamza6khan/voter-data-analysis/blob/main/dist_no_vote.jpg)
